- [Instructor] Writing tests for all database interactions
can be tedious.
How to choose which interactions to mock and which test,
what risks are we introducing with custom queries,
having in-memory databases,
and how to avoid common pitfalls.
Let's explore three keys to write
an effective integration test for the database layer.
But first, let's understand spring boot data support
and common ways of interacting with our persistence layer
in spring applications.
Spring boot comes with a variety of spring data projects
to work with SQL and NoSQL databases,
such as document, graph, and search.
We also get extensive support to interact
with our database from direct Jdbc access
using data source or Jdbc template.
Up to complete ORM such as hibernate
where we work with entity managers or repositories.
Spring data also provides different ways
to create a DB schema.
From writing SQL scripts or using DB migration tools
such as flyway or Liquibase,
to simplest autocreation based owner entities.
Each customization we make,
we introduce different levels of risks.
Key one, choosing the right interactions to test.
Let's consider you're using spring data repository
which you create by extending
one of the repository interfaces.
Spring data also allows you to customize queries
in the following ways.
By using custom query methods,
we don't need to tell spring data what to do
since it automatically derives the SQL query
from the method name using query annotation
with JPQL query syntax.
JPQL is Java Persistent Query Language
used to create queries against entities to store
in a relational database.
Using SQL query followed by native SQL
targeted at the database table.
Now, imagine we make a bug in all four cases.
The neat thing with spring
is that for the first three cases,
spring data and hibernate automatically check
if entity and query are valid at startup.
So there is a very little risk involved.
However, native queries are not validated.
So native queries are primary candidates
for integration tests.
Key two, make your tests fast by using test slices.
Running integration tests in spring
can be achieved by adding spring boot test annotation,
which loads full spring context.
However, this can lead to loading unnecessary parts
of your application.
For example, you might want to test database interactions
but you are not interested in the web layer
when those tests run.
Or you're only interested in web layer
and want to avoid loading all repositories.
The spring boot test module includes a number
of annotation test slices.
Each test slide, loads only the parts of the configuration
that are required to test the slice of your application
which can drastically speed up your tests.
Key three, in memory database
doesn't equal production database.
Springboard provides a convenient way
to set up an environment with an embedded database
such as age two or age as SQL
to test our database interactions.
Even though each tool comes with compatibility mode
for my SQL or Postgres.
However, if compatibility is not in sync with the version
of DB you're using,
you can almost get lulled into false sense of security,
thinking that all SQL interactions are fine.
What is the alternative?
How can we mitigate such risks with test containers?
This container is a lightweight library
that provides throwaway instances
of a common database in a docker container.
But without requiring complex setups for developers,
we can define exactly which database type
and version we want to work with.
We don't need to worry
about tests, having polluted the database,
or left things in a broken state
as each time our test starts with a fresh instance.
By choosing right interactions to test,
using test slices with embedded databases
or test containers.
We can produce integration tests with more efficiency
and with more reliability to deliver first-class software.